#################
### WRECKED ###
################
www.MDickie.com
Mat@MDickie.com

Wrecked is an extremely sophisticated simulation of life on a desert island. To get the most out of the experience, you should familiarize yourself with these concepts and the way they manifest themselves in a game environment. For a more detailed guide to the game's functionality, please refer to the "Wrecked.txt" document...

ENERGY
As in real life, your character's energy is compromised by every passing moment. It will always go down during a man's waking hours, and can only be refilled with sleep. However, it's important to acknowledge that it's closely linked to a man's activities. The more strenuous movements and actions - such as fighting or working - greatly increase the stress on your body. Not to mention taking a beating from the world around you! When approaching exhaustion, you will move slower and will be more prone to collapse - which, in extreme cases, may even result in death...

SLEEP
Although food offers a slight boost in energy, sleep is the only reliable way to restore your health. The benefits of sleep should be noticeable at any time, but they can be vastly improved by basking in the warmth of a camp fire (look for your "Energy" meter to glow orange to ensure this is taking effect). The quality of sleep isn't just about your convenience as a player either. Even when resting, your body slowly grows hungry and thirsty - so an efficient night's sleep will also help to curb these ailments... 

It's also important to consider that you are still vulnerable to attack when sleeping - so choosing when and where to do it is key. As in real life, there are great benefits to doing it at night time. Firstly, because it's harder to make sense of the world in darkness and you'll appreciate the chance to skip that part of the day! Secondly, because the rest of the population has the good sense to sleep at night too - so you're assured the most peaceful window of time...

Incidentally, lying face down after collapsing does count as "sleep" (you can choose not to get up). It's just that the chances of it occurring in an ideal location are very remote. The most inconvenient location is underwater - where you may choke to death instead of getting any rest!

HUNGER
As surely as your energy goes down, you can expect your hunger to increase. It intensifies with every passing moment - especially when working or fighting. The effects of extreme hunger are similar to extreme exhaustion. Your character will slow down to a crawl while he nurses his stomach, and he'll gradually lose energy. Hunger can obviously be alleviated by consuming food. However, it's important to acknowledge the difference between types of food. Meat is the most satisfying food of all, but it's hard to obtain without bloodshed. Fruit, on the other hand, is slightly less satisfying - although it does quench thirst at the same time (instead of stimulating it)...  

You may like to consider that ANY resource can be eaten! However, only vines go down without causing exteme poisoning (although they do increase thirst). The illogical resources like wood and stone offer no nutritional benefits at all, and will only serve to damage your body...

THIRST
The burden of thirst is almost identical to that of hunger - except that it can only be alleviated by drinking water. Thirst intensifies alongside your daily activity, and results in a slower, weaker character if left unresolved. It's worth noting that the effects of hunger and thirst are accumilative - i.e. if you're suffering in BOTH departments then you're practically dying! That kind of double-barrel miscalculation can turn these simple cravings into a serious death risk...

As in real life, when it comes to satisfying these urges there are several schools of thought. Neither ailment has to be broken down to zero at all times. They only become an issue after extreme neglect. Some players may like to nibble throughout the day, keeping discomfort at arm's length, whilst others gorge on one huge feast that keeps them going all day. Both techniques have their place depending on what the day has in store...

RESOURCES
Survival demands that you make your own way in the world, and that includes extracting essential materials from their source. Almost all natural structures on the island can be "attacked" and destroyed to unlock their valuable innards. These may consist of vines, wood, stone, meat, fruit - or a mixture of several. Exactly which resources are good for which material should be self-explanatory. A tree will produce lots of wood and a little greenery, whilst bushes will produce lots of vines and very little else... 

No matter how similar some of these products may be, you should also discover that each resource has it's own strengths and weaknesses. Trees, for instance, are twice as difficult to destroy as a simple bush - whilst solid structures such as rock are harder still. Referring back to the energy concept, this does of course mean that some pursuits are more exhausting than others - and this should factor in a player's approach to work. As we'll see later, it also means that tools are an invaluable part of daily life. The increasingly powerful range of weaponry helps to make light work of even the toughest of resources - which can save both time and energy... 

MATERIALS
The materials themselves are as unique as the resources from which they came. They, too, carry different strengths and weaknesses. For a start, they have varying weights - which should be noticeable when dropping or throwing. However, although heavier items such as stone cannot be thrown as far, you should find that they inflict more damage upon impact. Whether they're being hurled at rival creatures or other resources, you should find that an item's impact is directly linked to its size and weight...

When handling materials, it's also important to consider how they affect your mobility. Tucking a pile of resources under one arm can slow down even the healthiest of men, and doing so with both arms can slow you down further still. A sense of propriety, then, is essential if you are to maintain your productivity and avoid devastating ambush attacks. It's also worth remembering that the strain of carrying is accumilative with the suffering of things like hunger and thirst - so working when weak is not recommended...

CONSTRUCTION
The ultimate aim of gathering these resources is to bring them back to a place of work. Although you can construct anywhere, it's advisable to have a preset area which is both safe AND in close proximity to your stockpile (assuming you're sensible enough to have one!). Wherever you do it, working on materials is very much like breaking down the core resources from which they came. You simply "attack" them with either hand (or both in quick succession) until you get the desired effect - which should normally be no more than 10 blows...

Although each material can be chiselled down into its own basic weapon, the best results require you to combine them. By simply placing the desired materials in the same place, you should find that they are all worked on at the same time. An important part of building is to concentrate on the materials being hit to ensure that they are indeed rattling towards a united conclusion. Failure to do so may have undesired effects - not least a waste of resources! You may even find yourself wasting time as you repeatedly confuse your character about what you want them to make...

In addition to mixing and matching materials, the building possibilities can also be extended based on what's in the working hand. A hammer, for instance, is essential for many of the more sophisticated products. By using that tool to work on the same set of resources, you should enjoy a more advanced effect. An axe instead of a hammer is a good example, and that too opens up new possibilities (not least because it halves the production time of any job you take it to!). A complete guide to the products of construction can be found in the accompanying "Recipe Book.txt" document...

WEAPONRY
The main reason to get working is to attain the weapons that will make your life easier. As in real life, it's very difficult to fight off and kill anything with your bare hands! Even if you don't intend to be a carnivore, you will also need weaponry to help you cut through resources. For these reasons, it's important to acknowledge the strengths and weaknesses of each device:

- WHIPS and BONES (from dead carcasses) are the weakest of all weapons. That said, they're still twice as powerful as your bare hands and ease you onto the property ladder...
- Wooden STICKS and OARS are slightly tougher weapons, and they also benefit from a lengthy range which is good for keeping enemies at a distance...
- A ROCK is more powerful still, but it's non-existent range doesn't offer any additional benefits when fighting (unless used as a projectile)...
- The HAMMER is slightly more powerful than a ROCK, and also benefits from a more comfortable range. However, it's strengths as a tool outweigh those as a weapon...
- SPEARS are equally powerful, yet they also benefit from a STICK-like range. They also yield a damage bonus when thrown and even fly better to improve accuracy...
- The AXE is the most powerful of all weapons, and boasts a slightly better range than the HAMMER. However, it's also a little too precious to be used carelessly...

Incidentally, ALL weapons are preferable to standard resources. Although piles of material can be thrown for the occasional damage bonus, you'll find that they fly slower and fall shorter than any weapon. Furthermore, weapons are of course designed to be held in the hand and can be carried effortlessly. Unlike materials, however, weapons are rather more fragile. They can all be broken after repeated use (in any capacity), so the more precious ones should be used sparingly...

HUNTING
When tackling an enemy - whether out of agresson or self-defence - it's important to be prepared for the fight. Like everything else, all creatures have their own strengths and weaknesses: 

- HUMANS are the strongest of all creatures as far as health is concerned, and will require a considerable amount of punishment to be incapacitated - let alone killed... 
- Predators, like WOLVES and LEOPARDS, are the next most formidable enemy. More so in terms of the damage that they can inflict with their "bare hands"! 
- DEER are physically just as strong as those predators, but their docile nature poses no discernable threat...
- RABBITS are just as harmless as DEER, but they're much easier to incapacitate and kill. Although their small stature does make them hard to chase and indeed hit...
- Harmless and easy to kill, FISH are the weakest of all creatures. However, at home in deep waters, they can be awkward to catch...

If you want to taste the meat of any animal (including humans!), you'll have to establish a difference between "incapacitating" and "killing". Once an enemy is down, you must continue to pummel their body until they explode into a pile of flesh and bones - much like breaking materials out of a resource... 

STEALTH TACTICS
Hunting doesn't always have to be so head-on though. Sometimes, a lot more progress can be made by hunting with your mind rather than your hands. All creatures stop and contemplate their next move at one time or another. A sneaky player (and skilful thrower) should use this opportunity to ambush a target with a projectile attack. Not only does this reduce mindless chasing, but it also removes any risk of retaliation. It's also worth noting that creatures tend to be less aware of what's going on behind them, so you may be able to apply even more forceful tactics by sneaking up on a stationary target...   

Traps are another way of sidestepping the fighting process. Although most creatures will avoid an exposed trap, their common sense can be compromised with the right bait. By carefully dropping a desireable item over a trap (or piling on so many that it can't even be seen!), you should be able to lure a victim to an easy death. It's worth noting that each creature has its own desires. The carnivorous predators are attracted to meat and bones, whilst the docile herbivores are attracted to fruit and greenery. Humans are attracted to practically everything - which is a rare chance to use weapons and tools as bait...

FIRE MANAGEMENT
A well managed fire can also serve as a trap. After all, the materials that fuel it are themselves a kind of bait - and many creatures are curious to see what can be salvaged.  As you'd expect, though, flames inflict consider damage on those that get too close. Including yourself if you ignite or extinguish fires carelessly!

Fires live and breathe as if they were a character in their own right. Once ignited (by rubbing a wooden object against a log of wood), they burn through their source until it expires. The flames then spread to the nearest flammable item, or expire if no such item is within distance. Practically all items and materials are flammable - except those made entirely of stone or metal. However, they all have different qualities as a fuel. Food and vegetation, for instance, will perish very quickly - whilst wood is a more reliable burner. Whether you'll want to waste it on a fire, however, remains to be seen...

Fires serve many purposes - perhaps more so than any other product. In addition to the comfort and security outlined above, they also allow you to enflame your weapons for added power! By simply rubbing a flammable item against a fire's source once ignited, the item will inherit a small flame of its own. It's lifespan is rather more questionable, but while it lasts you can enjoy a considerable damage bonus against anything - from creatures to resources...

Fires also exist as a means of marking one's territory. Once lit, your fellow campers have no excuse for stealing the items within its glow. That doesn't mean they won't, however! The natives have as much respect for you as you have for them - so they'll only respect your space if you're worthy of such mercy. An animal's respect for fire is based on fear more than anything else, but the effect is essentially the same...

BOAT CONSTRUCTION
The ultimate goal of a civilized player is to build a boat on which to escape. Constructing a boat is a time-consuming affair, but it can be started (and indeed finished) at any moment. To begin, you must combine wood and vines with a hammer. Be careful about doing so, however, because the first segment will dictate where the boat stays until finished! You may run into difficulty if you choose not to construct it near the coast... 

Incidentally, you can construct a boat at any (or all) of the 4 coasts. However, you would be well served to concentrate all of your resources into one project. Once started, you can then develop your boat by repeatedly combining wood and vines (always with a hammer) in close proximity to the existing structure (preferably right on it). All in all, there are 9 segments to a vessel: 4 planks for the base, 4 surrounding planks, and 1 final decorative effect...

You can use the boat when (and only when) it is 100% completed. To do so, simply jump over to the seated area and press one of the Pick-Up commands. Your player will then assume control of the vessel, which can then be controlled as if it were a character. You may find that it handles very slowly by default, so you should endeavour to build a couple of oars too. With at least one of these in hand upon taking a seat, you should notice a considerable improvement...

Once completed, you are then free to complete the game by sailing out to the distant sea. Whether or not you want to is entirely up to you. In the meantime, for instance, you could use the boat as mobile home for travel, sleep, and storage...

SPIRITUALITY
Throughout the game, the mystic on the North coast assesses your status and advises you accordingly. To hear what he has to say, simply approach him as he meditates. Your exploits may not sit well with the mystic and his tribe - in which case he will warn you about your errors and give you a chance to make ammends. He could give you any one of over a dozen different tasks to complete. Upon doing so, simply return to his area to have the achievement acknowledged. In the meantime, approaching him will prompt a repeat of the task...

You have about 48 hours to complete any given task. Of course, whether or not you want to is entirely up to you. After all, as the soldier in the central garden suggests, he may not always be speaking the truth! However, ignoring him is both a philosophical risk and a social one - because the tribe will echo his thoughts with their own actions. While your reputation is that of an evil man, you are more likely to have your items stolen and your body abused...

Understanding the mystic's view of the world may help you to pre-empt such costly mistakes. Basically, the lives of all intelligent creatures (except fish) are sacred - including wolves and leopards (unless told otherwise). Most sacred of all of these are the lives of your fellow men. The distinction between "neutralizing" an enemy and "murdering" them is so clear that any such crime is considered to be pre-meditated. Elsewhere, theft is also a crime against the tribe. If you take or consume items protected by a "Keep Out!" sign then you willl be held accountable...    

Upon sailing away, the mystic will deliver his final verdict on your time at the island - and your destiny will be determined...

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you'd like to know more about this or any other game, 
please contact: Mat@MDickie.com
or visit: http://www.MDickie.com
